docs: Kubernetes deployment with the Helm chart (#969)
redpanda-data/documentation: docs/platform/kubernetes-deployment/kubernetes-best-practices.mdx

---
title: Best Practices for Redpanda in Kubernetes
tags:
  - Helm
  - Helm deployment
  - Helm configuration
---

<head>
    <meta name="title" content="Best Practices for Redpanda in Kubernetes | Redpanda Docs"/>
    <meta name="description" content="Understand what Redpanda recommends for Kubernetes deployments and why."/>
</head>

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

> This topic explains some of Redpanda's recommendations for Kubernetes deployments and provides tips for following best practices in your Kubernetes clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This topic explains Redpanda's tips and recommendations for Kubernetes deployments.
```

This way, it's clearer to understand what you've overridden from the `helm upgrade -install` command.
For example, if you override the `storage.persistentVolume.storageClass` configuration in a file called `my-custom-storage-class.yaml`,
the `helm` command might look something like the following:

```bash
helm upgrade --install redpanda redpanda/redpanda \
    --namespace redpanda --create-namespace \
    --values my-custom-storage-class.yaml
```

The `my-custom-storage-class.yaml` filename gives you a hint about how the Helm chart has been customized.

The Redpanda documentation follows this best practice.

## Storage

Redpanda recommends using a dedicated StorageClass with a dynamic provisioner that creates PersistentVolumes backed by NVMe SSD disks.
Dynamic provisioners make it easier to scale your Redpanda clusters because they provision new volumes when new Redpanda brokers are added to the cluster.
Without a dynamic provisioner, you need to create the PersistentVolumes manually before deploying Redpanda.

PersistentVolumes should be one of the following types:

> | **PersistentVolume** | **Description** | **Best for** |
> |-----------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|------|------|
> |   [Local](#local-persistent-volumes) (recommended) |   Storage is located on the worker node   |   High throughput and low latency  |
> |   [Remote](#remote-storage) |   Storage is mounted to the node through the network |  High availability   | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **PersistentVolume** | **Description** | **Best for** |
|-----------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|------|
|   [Local](#local-persistent-volumes) (recommended) |   Storage is located on the worker node   |   High throughput and low latency  |
|   [Remote](#remote-storage) |   Storage is mounted to the node through the network |  High availability   | 
```

Local PersistentVolumes can be accessed only by the worker nodes to which they are physically connected. To delay the binding of the PersistentVolumeClaim until the Pod is scheduled, set `volumeBindingMode` to `WaitForFirstConsumer` on the StorageClass.

PersistentVolumesClaims are not deleted when Redpanda brokers are removed from a cluster.
It is your responsibility to delete PersistentVolumeClaims when they are no longer needed.
As a result, it's important to consider your volume’s reclaim policy when creating your StorageClass:

- `Delete` - The volume is deleted when you delete the PersistentVolumeClaim.
- `Reclaim` - The volume is not deleted when you delete the PersistentVolumeClaim, allowing you to mount it to another Pod.

Learn how to configure storage in the Helm chart<!--[how to configure storage in the Helm chart](../../kubernetes-configuration/configure-storage)-->.

### Local persistent volumes

> Local persistent volumes store Redpanda data on a local disk that it attached to the worker node.

Author: ```suggestion
Local persistent volumes store Redpanda data on a local disk that is attached to the worker node.
```

Because Redpanda uses the Raft protocol to replicate data, it is safe to store data on local disks as long as your Redpanda cluster consists of the following:

- At least three brokers

> - Topics with a replication factor of at least 3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Topics have a replication factor of at least 3
```

Author: the leading sentence is `as long as your Redpanda cluster consists of`. Should the suggestion be `Topics that have`?

> |   [Local](#local-persistent-volumes) (recommended) |   Storage is located on the worker node   |   High throughput and low latency  |
> |   [Remote](#remote-storage) |   Storage is mounted to the node through the network |  High availability   | 
> 
> Local PersistentVolumes can be accessed only by the worker nodes to which they are physically connected. To delay the binding of the PersistentVolumeClaim until the Pod is scheduled, set `volumeBindingMode` to `WaitForFirstConsumer` on the StorageClass.
> 
> PersistentVolumesClaims are not deleted when Redpanda brokers are removed from a cluster.
> It is your responsibility to delete PersistentVolumeClaims when they are no longer needed.
> As a result, it's important to consider your volume’s reclaim policy when creating your StorageClass:
> 
> - `Delete` - The volume is deleted when you delete the PersistentVolumeClaim.
> - `Reclaim` - The volume is not deleted when you delete the PersistentVolumeClaim, allowing you to mount it to another Pod.
> 
> Learn how to configure storage in the Helm chart<!--[how to configure storage in the Helm chart](../../kubernetes-configuration/configure-storage)-->.
> 
> ### Local persistent volumes
> 
> Local persistent volumes store Redpanda data on a local disk that's attached to the worker node.
> 
> Because Redpanda uses the Raft protocol to replicate data, it is safe to store data on local disks as long as your Redpanda cluster consists of the following:
> 
> - At least three brokers
> - Topics configured with a replication factor of at least 3
> 
> This way, even if a worker node fails and you lose its local disk, the data still exists on at least two other worker nodes.
> 
> :::tip
> For greater reliability, Redpanda recommends enabling [rack awareness](../../data-management/kubernetes-rack-awareness) to minimize data loss in the event of a rack failure.
> :::
> 
> :::warning
> Always use a local persistent volume. Do not use hostPath or emptyDir in production, because they are tied to a specific worker node. If you use emptyDir or hostPath and the Pod is deleted and recreated, the Pod might be scheduled on another worker node and no longer have access to the same data. When you use a local persistent volume, the Kubernetes scheduler ensures that the Pod is always scheduled on the worker node to which the local volume is attached.

Author: ```suggestion
|   [Local](#local-persistentvolumes) (recommended) |   Storage is located on the worker node   |   High throughput and low latency  |
|   [Remote](#remote-storage) |   Storage is mounted to the node through the network |  High availability   | 

Local PersistentVolumes can be accessed only by the worker nodes to which they are physically connected. To delay the binding of the PersistentVolumeClaim until the Pod is scheduled, set `volumeBindingMode` to `WaitForFirstConsumer` on the StorageClass.

PersistentVolumesClaims are not deleted when Redpanda brokers are removed from a cluster.
It is your responsibility to delete PersistentVolumeClaims when they are no longer needed.
As a result, it's important to consider your volume’s reclaim policy when creating your StorageClass:

- `Delete` - The volume is deleted when you delete the PersistentVolumeClaim.
- `Reclaim` - The volume is not deleted when you delete the PersistentVolumeClaim, allowing you to mount it to another Pod.

Learn how to configure storage in the Helm chart<!--[how to configure storage in the Helm chart](../../kubernetes-configuration/configure-storage)-->.

### Local PersistentVolumes

Local PersistentVolumes store Redpanda data on a local disk that's attached to the worker node.

Because Redpanda uses the Raft protocol to replicate data, it is safe to store data on local disks as long as your Redpanda cluster consists of the following:

- At least three brokers
- Topics configured with a replication factor of at least 3

This way, even if a worker node fails and you lose its local disk, the data still exists on at least two other worker nodes.

:::tip
For greater reliability, Redpanda recommends enabling [rack awareness](../../data-management/kubernetes-rack-awareness) to minimize data loss in the event of a rack failure.
:::

:::warning
Always use a local PersistentVolume. Do not use hostPath or emptyDir in production, because they are tied to a specific worker node. If you use emptyDir or hostPath and the Pod is deleted and recreated, the Pod might be scheduled on another worker node and no longer have access to the same data. When you use a local PersistentVolume, the Kubernetes scheduler ensures that the Pod is always scheduled on the worker node to which the local volume is attached.
```

> Always use a local persistent volume. Do not use hostPath or emptyDir in production because they are tied to a specific worker node. If you use emptyDir or hostPath and the Pod is deleted and recreated, the Pod might be scheduled on another worker node and no longer have access to the same data. When you use a local persistent volume, the Kubernetes scheduler ensures that the Pod is always scheduled on the worker node to which the local volume is attached.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Always use a local persistent volume. Do not use hostPath or emptyDir in production, because they are tied to a specific worker node. If you use emptyDir or hostPath and the Pod is deleted and recreated, the Pod might be scheduled on another worker node and no longer have access to the same data. When you use a local persistent volume, the Kubernetes scheduler ensures that the Pod is always scheduled on the worker node to which the local volume is attached.
```

:::

Redpanda recommends the [Rancher Local Path Provisioner](https://github.com/rancher/local-path-provisioner), which provides a dynamic provisioner for local volumes.

```yaml
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: local-path
provisioner: rancher.io/local-path
reclaimPolicy: Delete
volumeBindingMode: WaitForFirstConsumer
```

### Remote storage

Remote storage persists data outside of the worker node so that the data is not tied to a specific worker node and it can be recovered.

> In cloud deployments, remote storage should be located in the same data center as the Pods that are running the Redpanda brokers. If a data center were to suffer an outage, not only would you lose all the Redpanda brokers in the availability zone, but also any Redpanda brokers that have remote storage in that availability zone.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In cloud deployments, locate remote storage in the same data center as the Pods that are running the Redpanda brokers. If a data center suffers an outage, you would lose all Redpanda brokers in the availability zone, and you would also lose any Redpanda brokers that have remote storage in that availability zone.
```

Reviewer: @JakeSCahill I'm not sure if my suggested change is correct. But the original is a bit hard to follow.

If you use Amazon EKS and you want to use Elastic Block Storage (EBS), make sure to install the [Amazon EBS CSI driver](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/ebs-csi.html). This driver is required to allow EKS to create PersistentVolumes.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="gcp" label="Google GCP">

Redpanda recommends the Balance PD, Performance (PD-SSD), or Extreme PD disk types due to their performance characteristics. For details about Google persistent disks, see the [Google documentation](https://cloud.google.com/persistent-disk#section-5).

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Worker nodes and Pod replicas

Each Pod replica that runs a Redpanda broker requires its own dedicated worker node for the following reasons:

- Redpanda brokers are designed to have access to all resources, such as CPU and memory, on their host machine.
- Redpanda brokers are accessed from external clients, using a dedicated [NodePort Service](#external-networking) on each node.

By default, the Helm chart deploys a StatefulSet with three Redpanda brokers. You can specify the number of Redpanda brokers in the `statefulset.replicas` configuration.

> ## External Networking

Author: ```suggestion
## External networking
```

Redpanda recommends using the default NodePorts to give external clients access to Redpanda brokers.
NodePort Services provide the lowest latency because they do not include any unnecessary routing or middleware.
Client connections go to the Redpanda brokers in the most direct way possible, through the worker nodes.

> For security reason, you may not want to expose worker nodes directly to clients using NodePorts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For security reasons, you may not want to expose worker nodes directly to clients using NodePorts.
```

> If you choose to use another Service on top of NodePorts, consider the impact on the cost and performance of your deployment:

Author: ```suggestion
If you choose to use another Service instead of NodePorts, consider the impact on the cost and performance of your deployment:
```

> - Load balancer - To make each Redpanda broker accessible with load balancers, you need one load balancer for each Redpanda broker, which is expensive and adds an unnecessary layer of complexity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Load balancer - To make each Redpanda broker accessible with load balancers, you need one load balancer for each Redpanda broker. This is expensive and adds an unnecessary layer of complexity.
```

> - Ingress - To make each Redpanda broker accessible with Ingress, you need to run an Ingress controller and set up routing to each Redpanda broker, which adds latency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ingress - To make each Redpanda broker accessible with Ingress, you need to run an Ingress controller and set up routing to each Redpanda broker. This adds latency.
```
